---
title: Real-time Analytics Core Concepts
author: v-thopra
description: Describes the core concepts of the PlayFab analytics system.
ms.author: v-thopra
ms.date: 26/10/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: playfab
keywords: playfab, analytics, metrics, events
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Real-time analytics: core concepts

The purpose of the **Analytics** system is to give you precise insights into what is going on inside your **Game**.

- How many **Players** did you have today?
- Where do they struggle?
- What do they like?
- How many **Games** were played?
- How much **XP** was gained?
- How many **Chests** were opened and on which levels?
- What is the average time for completing a certain level?

Such information is invaluable for marketing, level design, UX troubleshooting, and other aspects of your product development.

At its core, the **Analytics** system provides tools to aggregate, query, and analyze the **Events** generated by your **Game**, build reports, and export and manipulate the raw data.

## PlayFab Event

An **Event** - as a data structure - represents a change in state for your **Game**. **Events** are represented as **JSON** objects. Each **Event** has four parts:

1. **Name** (Or unique **Type** identifier) -  (*What happened?*)
2. **Entity** (**Player**, **Title**, or **Character**) - (*Who's guilty?*)
3. **Timestamp** - (*When did it happen?*)
4. **Associated Data** ( a.k.a. **Body**) - (*What are the relevant details?*)

It is important to distinguish between **Automatic** and **Custom Events**. Our [PlayStream Quickstart](../../automation/playstream-events/quickstart.md) explains the difference.

## Event Flow

The core of any **Analytics** system is the **Event Flow**, a big list of **Events** sorted by time.

Your **Players** produce a large number of different **Events**. Of course, **Events** are not captured by themselves - you need an **Analytics** system to capture those for later analysis.

A solid **Analytics** system allows you to **Group**, **Sort**, **Filter**, **Count**, **Transform**, and **Perform calculations** on a given set of **Events**, turning **Event Flow** into valuable, up-to-date information that you can use to run efficient **LiveOps**.

## Guides

- [Event History](../../automation/playstream-events/event-history.md): **Game Manager** page for inspecting the **Event Flow** inside your **Title**.
- [Webhooks](../../analytics/metrics/webhooks.md): **Game Manager** page for automatically triggering non-**PlayFab** servers on specific **Game Events**.
- [S3 Event Archiving](../../analytics/metrics/s3-event-archiving.md): **Game Manager** page for accessing recent **PlayStream Events**.
