---
title: Using CloudScript actions with PlayStream
author: v-thopra
description: Shows what is available in the context of a CloudScript handler launched from a PlayStream action, and how to make use of it.
ms.author: v-thopra
ms.date: 06/11/2018
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: playfab
keywords: playfab, automation, cloudscript, playstream, events, actions
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Using CloudScript Actions with PlayStream

When a **CloudScript Handler** is launched from a **PlayStream Action**, that **Handler** has access to additional data on why it is being run - the context - which you can use to drive your server-side logic.

This tutorial walks you through what all is available in the context and how to make use of it in your **CloudScript Handlers**.

## CloudScript basics

The key to getting the most out of **CloudScript** is knowing how to work with the inputs you have available – namely, the **args** and context for your **Handler**.

For example, here’s the **helloWorld** example from the starter **CloudScript** loaded as **Revision 1** in all newly created **Titles** (also available in our **GitHub**, [shown below](https://github.com/PlayFab/CloudScriptSamples/tree/master/BasicSample)).

```javascript
// This is a CloudScript function. 
// "args" is set to the value of the "FunctionParameter" parameter of the ExecuteCloudScript API.
// "context" contains additional information when the CloudScript function is called from a PlayStream action.
handlers.helloWorld = function (args, context) {
	
    // The pre-defined "currentPlayerId" variable is initialized to the PlayFab ID of the player logged-in on the game client.
    // CloudScript handles authenticating the player automatically.
    var message = "Hello " + currentPlayerId + "!";
 
    // You can use the "log" object to write out debugging statements. It has
    // three functions corresponding to logging level: debug, info, and error. These functions
    // take a message string and an optional object.
    log.info(message);
    var inputValue = null;
    if (args != null && args != undefined)
    {
        inputValue = args.inputValue;
    }
    log.debug("helloWorld:", { input: inputValue });
 
    // The value you return from a CloudScript function is passed back
    // to the game client in the ExecuteCloudScript API response, along with any log statements
    // and additional diagnostic information, such as any errors returned by API calls or external HTTP
    // requests. They are also included in the optional player_executed_cloudscript PlayStream event
    // generated by the function execution.
    return { messageValue: message };
}
```

This example demonstrates the common use case of calling **CloudScript** from a **Client** via [ExecuteCloudScript](xref:titleid.playfabapi.com.client.server-sidecloudscript.executecloudscript). It checks for an argument passed in with the key **inputValue**, and uses the value for that key as part of the text returned in the debug log info for the execution.

## The context input parameter

However, it’s also possible to call a **CloudScript** as a result of an **Event** in **PlayStream**, via a **Rule** (Automation->Rules), a **Segment Enter/Exit Action** (Players->Segments), or the **Task Service** (Automation->Tasks).

When you do, the context passed in to the function provides all the information you’ll need to take the appropriate action.

To read about the basics of how **PlayStream Events** work, see our blog [Introducing PlayStream](https://blog.playfab.com/blog/introducing-playstream/), and for a list of **PlayStream Event Types** and their properties, see our [PlayFab API Reference](../../../api-references/index.md).

To view this action, have a look at the **handlePlayStreamEventAndProfile Handler** from the same sample **CloudScript**.

```javascript
// This is a simple example of a function that is called from a
handlers.handlePlayStreamEventAndProfile = function (args, context) {
	
    // The event that triggered the action. 
    // For a list of event types, see our PlayFAb API documentation.
    var psEvent = context.playStreamEvent;
	
    // The profile data of the player associated with the event
    var profile = context.playerProfile;
	
    // Post data about the event to an external API
    var content = JSON.stringify({user: profile.PlayerId, event: psEvent.EventName});
    var response = http.request('https://httpbin.org/status/200', 'post', content, 'application/json', null, true);
	
    return { externalAPIResponse: response };
}
```

In the case of a **PlayStream**-triggered **CloudScript** call, the context contains 3 elements that can be used to drive your server-authoritative **Handler’s** logic.

1. There’s the **playStreamEvent**, which you can see in the example code above. The **playStreamEvent** contains the complete event which triggered the **Handler** as a **JSON** object, with all the parameters you see in the [PlayStream event documentation](https://api.playfab.com/playstream/events). So for example, if you set up a **Rule** in your **Title** that called **handlePlayStreamEventAndProfile** on any **player_logged_in event**, **playStreamEvent.EventName** would be **player_logged_in**, etc. ([here’s the complete set of parameters for that event](https://api.playfab.com/playstream/events/player_logged_in)).

1. Next, there’s the **playerProfile**, also shown the the previous example. This contains information about the **Player** that triggered the **Event**. You can find all the details of the profile parameters here, but among other things, it contains the complete set of **Statistics** for the **Player** in your **Title**, as well as any custom **Tags** you have assigned to the **Player**, so that you can use that data for very rich decision-making.

1. The last element of context is **triggeredByTask**. Unlike the first two, which are set when using **Rules** and **Segment Enter/Exit** triggers, **triggeredByTask** is only applicable when the **Handler** is running as a result of a **Task**, whether manual or on a timer. It contains only two parameters:

- **Name** – The unique name you gave your **Task** when you created it.

- **Id** – The unique identifier automatically generated by **PlayFab** for your **Task**.

For a **Task** run against a **User Segment**, you’ll also have the **playerProfile**, but you won’t have a **playStreamEvent**.

And for a **Task** that’s simply run against your game but *without* any **Segment**, there won’t be a **playerProfile**, since the intent is to run something more general, like setting some **Title Data** for an **Event**.

So **Name** is the element you’ll want to use to use in your **Handler’s** code flow, to determine the appropriate action to take.

## PlayStream plus CloudScript

In many ways, **CloudScript Handlers** triggered by **PlayStream** actions have even more potential functionality than those triggered directly through calls to **ExecuteCloudScript**, since there’s a rich set of data made available via the context.

This gives you the ability to update your **Handlers** post-launch with *additional* logic that makes use of elements of the **Event** or **Player Profile** that you hadn’t originally anticipated, *without* needing to update your **Client** code in any way.

In addition, we’ll continue to make additions to the **Player Profile** in future updates of the **PlayFab** service, which will provide even *more* options for server-side logic.