---
title: PlayStream Event Model reference
author: joannaleecy
description: Overview page for PlayStream event model reference documentation.
ms.author: joanlee
ms.date: 02/19/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: azure-playfab
keywords: playfab, api, events, playstream
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# PlayStream Event Model reference

These are the built-in PlayStream events which are automatically generated by PlayFab Game Services APIs and written to the event pipeline. In addition to these events, you can create your own custom events using the [WriteEvents](xref:titleid.playfabapi.com.events.playstreamevents.writeevents) API.

Each event type has a set of properties that are included as part of event's data wherever it is sent. You can view these properties and build rules for triggering actions based on their values in the PlayStream tab of the Game Manager.

## General

- [entity_created](entity-created.md)  
  This event is triggered when an entity is created.  

- [entity_executed_cloud_script](entity-executed-cloud-script.md)  
  This event is optionally triggered when an Entity CloudScript function is executed, either by calling the ExecuteCloudScript API with the GeneratePlayStreamEvent option or triggered by a PlayStream event action with the 'Publish results as a PlayStream Event' box checked.  

- [entity_files_set](entity-files-set.md)  
  This event is triggered when files are attached to an entity.

- [entity_language_updated](entity-language-updated.md)  
  This event is triggered when the language associated with an entity is changed.

- [entity_logged_in](entity-logged-in.md)  
  This event is triggered when an entity has logged in.

- [entity_objects_set](entity-objects-set.md)  
  This event is triggered when objects are attached to an entity.

- [entity_virtual_currency_balances_changed](entity-virtual-currency-balances-changed.md)  
  This event is triggered when an entity's virtual currency balance changes.

- [group_created](group-created.md)
  This event is triggered when an entity group is created.

- [group_deleted](group-deleted.md)  
  This event is triggered when an entity group is deleted.

- [group_members_added](group-members-added.md)  
  This event is triggered when a member is added to an entity group.

- [group_members_removed](group-members-removed.md)  
  This event is triggered when a member is removed from an entity group.

- [group_role_created](group-role-created.md)  
  This event is triggered when a role is created for a group.

- [group_role_deleted](group-role-deleted.md)  
  This event is triggered when a role is deleted from a group.

- [group_role_members_added](group-role-members-added.md)  
  This event is triggered when a list of entities are added to a role within a group.

- [group_role_members_removed](group-role-members-removed.md)  
  This event is triggered when a list of entities are removed from a role within a group.

- [group_role_updated](group-role-updated.md)  
  This event is triggered when a role is updated within a group.

- [group_updated](group-updated.md)  
  This event is triggered when an entity group is updated.

- [matchmaking_match_found](matchmaking-match-found.md)  
  This event is triggered when a group of tickets are matched together.  
  
- [matchmaking_ticket_completed](matchmaking-ticket-completed.md)  
  This event is triggered when a matchmaking ticket reaches a completion state.  
  
- [matchmaking_user_ticket_completed](matchmaking-user-ticket-completed.md)  
  This event is sent to each of the users in the completed ticket.

- [matchmaking_user_ticket_invite](matchmaking-user-ticket-invite.md)  
  This event is triggered when a ticket with an invited user is created. The event will be sent to the invited user.  

- [multiplayer_server_build_deleted](multiplayer-server-build-deleted.md)  
  This event is triggered when a multiplayer server build is deleted.  

- [multiplayer_server_build_region_status_changed](multiplayer-server-build-region-status-changed.md)  
  This event is triggered when a multiplayer server's build region status is changed.  

- [multiplayer_server_build_region_updated](multiplayer-server-build-region-updated.md)  
  This event is triggered when a multiplayer server build region is updated.

- [multiplayer_server_certificate_deleted](multiplayer-server-certificate-deleted.md)  
  This event is triggered when a multiplayer server certificate is deleted.

- [multiplayer_server_certificate_uploaded](multiplayer-server-certificate-uploaded.md)  
  This event is triggered when a multiplayer server certificate is uploaded.  

- [multiplayer_server_create_build_initiated](multiplayer-server-create-build-initiated.md)  
  This event is triggered when a multiplayer server build is initiated.

- [multiplayer_server_game_asset_deleted](multiplayer-server-game-asset-deleted.md)  
  This event is triggered when a multiplayer server game asset is deleted.  

- [multiplayer_server_requested](multiplayer-server-requested.md)  
  This event is triggered when a multiplayer server shutdown is requested.  

- [multiplayer_server_state_changed](multiplayer-server-state-changed.md)  
  This event is triggered when a multiplayer server's state is changed.

- [multiplayer_server_vm_assigned](multiplayer-server-vm-assigned.md)  
  This event is triggered when a virtual machine is assigned to a multiplayer server build.  

- [multiplayer_server_vm_remote_user_created](multiplayer-server-vm-remote-user-created.md)  
  This event is triggered when a multiplayer server virtual machine remote user is created.

- [multiplayer_server_vm_remote_user_deleted](multiplayer-server-vm-remote-user-deleted.md)  
  This event is triggered when a multiplayer server virtual machine remote user is deleted.  

- [multiplayer_server_vm_unassignment_started](multiplayer-server-vm-unassignment-started.md)  
  This event is triggered when a virtual machine is unassigned from a multiplayer server build.  

- [multiplayer_server_vm_unhealthy](multiplayer-server-vm-unhealthy.md)  
  This event is triggered when a virtual machine is found to be unhealthy.

- [studio_created](studio-created.md)  
  This event is triggered when a studio is created.

- [studio_user_added](studio-user-added.md)
  This event is triggered when a user accepts a studio invitation.  

- [studio_user_invited](studio-user-invited.md)  
  This event is triggered when a user is invited to a studio.

- [studio_user_removed](studio-user-removed.md)  
  This event is triggered when a user is removed from a studio.

- [tenancy_connector_onboard](tenancy-connector-onboard.md)  
  This event is triggered when a tenancy connector is onboarded.

- [studio_tier_updated](studio-tier-updated.md)  
  This event is triggered when a studio tier is updated.

## Catalog

- [item_created](item-created.md)  
  This event is triggered when an item is created.

- [item_deleted](item-deleted.md)  
  This event is triggered when an item is deleted.

- [item_moderation_state_changed](item-moderation-state-changed.md)  
  This event is triggered when an item moderation state is changed.

- [item_publish_requested](item-publish-requested.md)  
  This event is triggered when an publishing is started.

- [item_reported](item-reported.md)  
  This event is triggered when an item is reported.

- [item_updated](item-updated.md)  
  This event is triggered when an item is updated.

- [review_reported](review-reported.md)  
  This event is triggered when a review is reported.

- [reviews_takedown_requested](reviews-takedown-requested.md)  
  Event trigged when a takedown of reviews is requested.

## Character

- [character_consumed_item](character-consumed-item.md)  
  This event is triggered when a character consumes an item from their inventory.  

- [character_created](character-created.md)  
  This event is triggered when a character is created for the first time.  

- [character_inventory_item_added](character-inventory-item-added.md)  
  This event is triggered when an item is granted to a character.

- [character_statistic_changed](character-statistic-changed.md)  
  This event is triggered when a character statistic is changed.  

- [character_statistic_deleted](character-statistic-deleted.md)  
  This event is triggered when a character statistic is deleted.  

- [character_vc_item_purchased](character-vc-item-purchased.md)  
  This event is triggered when the character makes a purchase using virtual currency.

- [character_virtual_currency_balance_changed](character-virtual-currency-balance-changed.md)  
  This event is triggered when a character's virtual currency balance changes.  

## Inventory

- [items_added](items-added.md)  
  Event raised when items have been added to an inventory.

- [items_deleted](items-deleted.md)  
  Event raised when items have been deleted from an inventory.

- [items_purchased](items-purchased.md)  
  Event raised when items have been purchased from an inventory.

- [items_redeemed](items-redeemed.md)  
  Event raised when items have been redeemed to an inventory.

- [items_subtracted](items-subtracted.md)  
  Event raised when items have been subtracted from an inventory.

- [items_transferred](items-transferred.md)  
  Event raised when items have been transferred to or from an inventory.

- [items_updated](items-updated.md)  
  Event raised when items have been updated in an inventory.

## Partner

- [display_name_filtered](display-name-filtered.md)  
  This event is triggered when a display name is filtered by community sift.  

- [player_display_name_filtered](player-display-name-filtered.md)  
  This event is triggered when a display name is filtered by community sift only if there is an associated player EntityId for the event.

- [player_photon_session_authenticated](player-photon-session-authenticated.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player connects to a Photon Cloud application and authenticates with PlayFab using Photon custom authentication.

## Player

- [auth_token_validated](auth-token-validated.md)  
  This event is triggered when an email confirmation link is clicked.

- [title_deleted_master_player](title-deleted-master-player.md)  
  This event is triggered when a GDPR delete is finished.

- [player_action_executed](player-action-executed.md)  
  This event is triggered when an action linked to a segmentation change or event rule executes on a player.

- [player_ad_campaign_attribution](player-ad-campaign-attribution.md)  
  This event is triggered by an attribution tracking Add-on when a player is matched to a paid acquisition campaign.

- [player_ad_closed](player-ad-closed.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player closes an ad.

- [player_added_title](player-added-title.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player creates a new account for a title. Note: this event is triggered once per title rather than once per publisher.

- [player_ad_ended](player-ad-ended.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player finishes an ad.

- [player_ad_opened](player-ad-opened.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player opens an ad.

- [player_ad_rewarded](player-ad-rewarded.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player recieves an ad reward.

- [player_ad_activity_valued](player-ad-activity-valued.md)  
  Event triggered when reported value of ad view is recorded

- [player_ad_started](player-ad-started.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player starts an ad.

- [player_banned](player-banned.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player is banned.

- [player_changed_avatar](player-changed-avatar.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player's avatar URL is changed.

- [player_completed_password_reset](player-completed-password-reset.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player completes the password reset process by visiting the link URL that was sent to them and choosing a new password.

- [player_consumed_item](player-consumed-item.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player consumes an item from their inventory.

- [player_created](player-created.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player account is created for the first time. Note: this event is only triggered once per publisher, not once per title.

- [player_data_exported](player-data-exported.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player's data is exported.

- [player_device_info](player-device-info.md)  
  This event is triggered once after the player logs in based on the settings for your title.

- [player_displayname_changed](player-displayname-changed.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player's display name is changed.

- [player_executed_cloudscript](player-executed-cloudscript.md)  
  This event is optionally triggered when a CloudScript function is executed, either by calling the ExecuteCloudScript API with the GeneratePlayStreamEvent option or triggered by a PlayStream event action with the 'Publish results as a PlayStream Event' box checked.

- [player_inventory_item_added](player-inventory-item-added.md)  
  This event is triggered when an item is granted to a player.

- [player_linked_account](player-linked-account.md)  
  This event is triggered when a new authentication method is linked to a player's account.

- [player_logged_in](player-logged-in.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player logs in.

- [player_password_reset_link_sent](player-password-reset-link-sent.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player is sent a link to reset their password.

- [player_paid_for_purchase](player-paid-for-purchase.md)  
  This event is triggered when the second step of the payment process completes, paying for the purchase.

- [player_ranked_on_leaderboard_version](player-ranked-on-leaderboard-version.md)  
  This event is triggered for the top-ranked players on a leaderboard when the leaderboard version changes (e.g. when a leaderboard statistic version is incremented). The maximum number of leaderboard entries for which the event is generated is controlled by the "Leaderboard version change top rank events sent" title limit.

- [player_realmoney_purchase](player-realmoney-purchase.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player makes a real money purchase, and generates revenue for the game.

- [player_receipt_validation](player-receipt-validation.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player attempts to make a real money purchase and the purchase receipt is being validated.

- [player_redeemed_coupon](player-redeemed-coupon.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player redeems a coupon.

- [player_registered_push_notifications](player-registered-push-notifications.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player registers for push notifications.

- [player_removed_title](player-removed-title.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player account for a title is removed. Note: this event is triggered once per title rather than once per publisher.

- [player_reported_as_abusive](player-reported-as-abusive.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player is reported by another player as abusive.

- [player_set_profile_property](player-set-profile-property.md)  
  This event is triggered when PlayFab makes an internal adjustment to a player profile.

- [player_started_purchase](player-started-purchase.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player starts a purchase.

- [player_statistic_changed](player-statistic-changed.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player statistic is changed.

- [player_statistic_deleted](player-statistic-deleted.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player statistic is deleted.

- [player_tag_added](player-tag-added.md)  
  This event is triggered when a tag is added to a player profile.

- [player_tag_removed](player-tag-removed.md)  
  This event is triggered when a tag is removed from a player profile.

- [player_triggered_action_executed_cloudscript](player-triggered-action-executed-cloudscript.md)  
  This event is triggered when a CloudScript function is run as the result of a PlayStream action, and the 'Publish results as a PlayStream Event' box was checked.

- [player_unlinked_account](player-unlinked-account.md)  
  This event is triggered when an authentication method is unlinked from a player's account.

- [player_updated_contact_email](player-updated-contact-email.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player updates a contact email on their profile.

- [player_vc_item_purchased](player-vc-item-purchased.md)  
  This event is triggered when the player makes a purchase using virtual currency.

- [player_verified_contact_email](player-verified-contact-email.md)  
  This event is triggered when a contact email is verified for a player.

- [player_virtual_currency_balance_changed](player-virtual-currency-balance-changed.md)  
  This event is triggered when a player's virtual currency balance changes.

- [sent_push_notification](sent-push-notification.md)  
  This event is triggered when a push notification is sent or fails to be sent to a player.

- [sent_email](sent-email.md)  
  This event is triggered when an email is sent or fails to send to a player.

## Session

- [client_focus_change](client-focus-change.md)  
  This event is triggered every time the application enters or exits focus on the player's device.

- [client_session_start](client-session-start.md)  
  This event is triggered when a new client session starts.

## Title

- [title_aborted_task](title-aborted-task.md)  
  This event is triggered when a task instance is aborted.

- [title_added_cloudscript](title-added-cloudscript.md)  
  This event is triggered when new CloudScript is uploaded to PlayFab.

- [title_api_settings_changed](title-api-settings-changed.md)  
  This event is triggered when an API Features setting is changed for the title.

- [title_catalog_updated](title-catalog-updated.md)  
  This event is triggered when a catalog is changed.

- [title_client_rate_limited_alert](title-client-rate-limited-alert.md)  
  This event is triggered when a single IP address generates too many API calls to PlayFab and is throttled.

- [title_completed_task](title-completed-task.md)  
  This event is triggered when a scheduled task has completed

- [title_created_task](title-created-task.md)  
  This event is triggered when a task is created.

- [title_deleted](title-deleted.md)  
  This event is triggered when a game title is deleted.

- [title_deleted_task](title-deleted-task.md)  
  This event is triggered when a task is deleted.

- [title_exceeded_limit](title-exceeded-limit.md)  
  This event is triggererd when a title exceeds a service limit and receives an error.

- [title_high_error_rate_alert](title-high-error-rate-alert.md)  
  This event is triggered when a game title experiences a high rate of errors.

- [title_initiated_player_password_reset](title-initiated-player-password-reset.md)  
  This event is triggered when a title initiates the account recovery process for a player.

- [title_limit_changed](title-limit-changed.md)  
  This event is triggered when a title changes a service limit.

- [title_news_updated](title-news-updated.md)  
  This event is triggered when a title news is created or updated.

- [title_permission_policy_changed](title-permission-policy-changed.md)  
  This event is triggered when an update occurs to a a title's permission policies.

- [title_profile_view_constraints_changed](title-profile-view-constraints-changed.md)  
  This event is triggered when a profile view constraint is changed for the title.

- [title_published_cloudscript](title-published-cloudscript.md)  
  An inactive revision of CloudScript has been made into the active 'live' version.

- [title_queue_config_updated](title-queue-config-updated.md)  
  This event is triggered when a queue config is changed.

- [title_requested_limit_change](title-requested-limit-change.md)  
  This event is triggered when a title requests a service limit change.

- [title_saved_survey](title-saved-survey.md)  
  This event is triggered when a game's survey is saved.

- [title_scheduled_cloudscript_executed](title-scheduled-cloudscript-executed.md)  
  This event is triggered when a CloudScript function is run by a scheduled task.  

- [title_secret_key_changed](title-secret-key-changed.md)  
  This event is triggered when a title adds or updates a Secret Key

- [title_started_task](title-started-task.md)  
  This event is triggered when a task is scheduled to run.

- [title_statistic_version_changed](title-statistic-version-changed.md)  
  This event is triggered when the version of a statistic changes, causing its leaderboard to reset.

- [title_store_updated](title-store-updated.md)  
  This event is triggered when a store is changed.

- [title_updated_task](title-updated-task.md)  
  This event is triggered when a task is updated.
