---
title: PlayFab Release Notes 2019
author: toddbell
description: PlayFab Release Notes for 2019.
ms.author: toddbell
ms.date: 10/15/2019
ms.topic: release notes
ms.prod: playfab
keywords: playfab, development, release, apis, features
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# PlayFab Release Notes 2018

## 181218

Date: 2018-12-18

### XPlatCppSdk Specific Changes:

 - SDK Breaking Change: Updated the folder structure for the XPlatCppSdk repo. If you are using the SDK with project references, an update to vcxproj files path would be required.
 - Adding Xbox support to the XPlatCppSdk. Refer to the XPlatCpp Getting Started Guide for Xbox.
### New API :
 - Added PlayFabEventApi to support Heavyweight (low throughput) and Lightweight (high throughput) custom events.
 
### UnrealMarketplacePlugin Specific Changes:

 - Adding support for Unreal Engine 4.21

## 181204

Date: 2018-12-04

### XPlatCppSdk Specific Changes:

 - Added support to build external dependencies
 - Updated nuget composition. This is not a breaking change. Added binaries for the external dependencies to the nuget and updated the properties sheet.
 - Bug fixes for QoSAPI.
 
### CSharpSDK Specific Changes:

 - Added .NET Standard 1.1/2.0 (plus .Net Core) support.
 - Updated nuget composition. The package now contains binaries for .Net Standard 1.1/2.0 and portables also.
 - Migrated VS project files to VS 2017 standard.

### UnitySDK Specific Changes:

 - SDK Breaking Change: The SimpleGet success callback signature has changed, and now must accept a new single parameter of a byte[]
 - Added SimplePost.

## 181114

Date: 2018-11-18

### Multiplayer API:

 - AzureVmSize enum values are updated
 
### XplatCppSdk:

 - Updated to provide instructions and a script to build dependencies from source code via git submodules on Windows
 
## 181105

Date: 2018-11-05

### API Changes:

 - PlayFab now supports login and account-linking with OpenID
 - Additional XboxLive ID support, and enabling Xbox login via server

In preparation for wider release of the service, we are rolling out PlayFab Multiplayer Servers 2.0 APIs.

See http://aka.ms/PlayFabMultiplayer for more information

## 181001

Date: 2018-10-01

### API Changes:

#### A variety of deprecations have taken effect, and those elements have been removed from SDKs and documentation

 - Some Admin API methods related to unreleased features have been hidden
 - server.DeleteUsers deprecation has taken effect
 - A field deprecation for "ServerHostname", spread across a variety of matchmaking related calls in admin, client, matchmaker, and server APIs has taken effect. "ServerIPV4Address" is the replacement.

### UnitySdk Changes:

 - Minor fixes/improvements to ScreenTime analytics
 
### All SDKs:

 - The automated-build branch structure for GitHub repos is changing

The normal customer facing branches, "versioned" and "master" will be unchanged

## 180924

Date: 2018-09-24

### API Changes:

 - Adding Metadata to the DeleteMasterPlayerAccountRequest Model

 - Bug fixes in the Unreal Marketplace Plugin to expand supported versions

## 180917

Date: 2018-09-17

### API Changes:

 - Server API: Method DeleteUsers is deprecated and replaced with DeletePlayer

### Unreal Marketplace Plugin:

 - Updated Marketplace Plugin to include our Blueprint interface
 - New Marketplace Getting Started Guide [https://api.playfab.com/docs/getting-started/unreal-mkpl-getting-started#entry:6414:url]
 - View in Unreal Marketplace [https://www.unrealengine.com/marketplace/playfab-sdk]
 - Upgrade Guide [https://api.playfab.com/docs/getting-started/unreal-mkpl-getting-started/mkpl-upgrade#entry:6456:url]

## 180906

Date: 2018-09-06

### New API:

 - Localization

### New PlayStream Event Documentation:

 - client_focus_change
 - client_session_start
 - player_device_info

## 180829

Date: 2018-08-29

### API Changes:

 - renaming Entity.TypeString to Entity.Type
 - renaming EmptyResult to EmptyResponse
 - Renamed most Authentication function calls like GameServer* to MutliplayerServer* 
 - Admin.GetUserAccountInfo has more detailed platform information

### Objective C Specific Changes:

 - various bug fixes and refactors
 - Changing AttributeInstallRequest to be api specific
 - Unreal Engine Specific Changes:

adding in UE marketplace plugin to SDK generator

## 180809

Date: 2018-08-09

### API Group Changes:

 - We have separated the Entity API Group into multiple new Api Groups
 - This is a big SDK Breaking change for anybody using the former Entity Api
 - See our Blog!
 - See our Upgrade Guide!
(Please note, the links for blog and upgrade guide may not work yet, they're almost done)

### API Changes:

 - New Api Methods
 - multiplayer.GetTitleMultiplayerServersQuotas
 - server.AddGenericID
 - server.DeletePushNotificationTemplate
 - server.GetPlayFabIDsFromGenericIDs
 - server.LinkServerCustomId
 - server.RemoveGenericID
 - server.SavePushNotificationTemplate
 - server.SendPushNotificationFromTemplate
 - server.UnlinkServerCustomId
 
### UnitySDK specific changes:

 - Verified working on 2019.1
 - CSharpSDK and XPlatCppSdk changes:

Minor bug-fixes

## 180716

Date: 2018-07-16

### UnitySDK Changes:

 - Fixed minor issues with ScreenTime under some rare circumstances

### CSharpSDK Changes:

 - Added Plugin Manager API to C# SDK to support optional custom implementations of JSON Serializer and HTTP client

### UnrealCppSdk:

 - Unreal 4 C++ SDK is also published on Unreal Marketplace!

## 180710

Date: 2018-07-10

### Unity Hotfix Release:

 - Further refinements and optimizations to the Screen-Time events

## 180709

Date: 2018-07-09

### Hotfix Release:

 - Fixing some minor issues with last week's deployments
 - Everything in last week's release notes should now actually work as promised

## 180706

Date: 2018-07-06

### API Changes:

 - New API Method
 - entity.WriteEvents

### UnitySDK Specific Changes:

 - Screen-time tracking, described in the previous release is no longer Beta-only

## 180705

Date: 2018-07-05

### API Changes:

 - EntityAPI.ExecuteEntityCloudScript
 - PlayStreamEventModel.title_hopper_config_updated
 
### New PythonSdk!
 - Verified with 2.7 and 3.0

### UnitySDK Changes:

 - Wrapped some utilities in a namespace to avoid 3rd party conflicts
 - Editor Extensions should misbehave less, and display fewer warnings
 - New Feature - read the blog

### JavaScriptSDK Changes:

 - customData relay parameter should now work for Login functions

### XPlatCppSdk Specific Changes:

 - Large results will now be parsed correctly

## 180618

Date: 2018-06-18

### API Changes:

 - Added new error codes in a variety of API methods
 - Multiple entity-related PlayStream events now describe their EntityLineage
 
## 180528

Date: 2018-05-28

### API Changes:

 - New API Methods
 - Admin.GetPlayedTitleList
 - Admin.DeleteMasterPlayerAccount
 - Admin.ExportMasterPlayerData
 - This is a part of the new GDPR launch. See our blog here
 - Updated Error codes in a variety of API methods

### New PlayStream Event:
 - player_data_exported
 
## 180514

Date: 2018-05-14

### XPlatCppSdk Specific Changes:

 - Fixes in JSON serialization
 
## 180507

Date: 2018-05-07

### API Changes:

### New API Method:
 - entity.GetProfiles
### New PlayStream Events:
 - entity_executed_cloud_script
### Updated API Method:
 - client.RegisterPlayFabUser now returns result.EntityToken

### UnitySdk Specific Changes:

 - HttpWebRequest certificate validation security has been improved
 - No longer default to ignoring all certificates
 - Customers are expected to implement their own certificate validation, or call PlayFab.Internal.PlayFabWebRequest.SkipCertificateValidation()

### WindowsSdk Specific Changes:

 - Fixed hundreds of Level 4 warnings
 - The version number published in PlayFabSettings.cpp has been corrected
 - Most previous versions will have all had the wrong version number embedded in-code, and in call headers

### XPlatCppSdk has been created:

 - Currently in beta
 - Built using WindowsSdk as a template
 - May become a replacement to WindowsSdk (At least several months away)
 - Upgrade should require almost no breaking changes
 - Some cpprestsdk strings should be converted to std::string
 - some web::json::value types have been converted to json::value
 - timestamps are not fully tested in Linux
 - NuGet package
 - Uses lighter weight dependencies
 - Specifically jsoncpp and curl, rather than cpprestsdk
 - uses std::string everywhere, rather than a mix of 2 string types
 - Adds Linux Support
 
## 180414

Date: 2018-04-14

### Unreal Cpp Sdk HotFix:

 - Issues were discovered in the Entity API release for Unreal Cpp Sdk. These are hotfixed, and the Entity API should now work as expected.

## 180409

Date: 2018-04-09

### API Changes:

#### HotFix
 - Only the date was updated, not the major/minor version numbers
#### Guilds:
 - client.GetAccountInfo.UserInfo.TitleInfo.TitlePlayerAccount now contains the required information to identify other players and add them to your guild/group
 - The same information can also be found with admin.GetUserAccountInfo and server.GetUserAccountInfo

### UnitySdk Specific Changes:

 - Performance improvement for default HTTP settings (UnityWWW), for long-running processes

## 180403

Date: 2018-04-03

### Unreal SDKs Updated to support v4.17 thru 4.19:

 - Removing support for UE 4.14 thru 4.16 (Please update!)

## 180329

Date: 2018-03-29

### Unreal SDKs Updated to support Entity APIs:

 - Sorry for the delay!
 - This release still targets UE 4.17, and not 4.18 or 4.19. We are in-progress working on updating versions
 
## 180316

Date: 2018-03-16

### API Changes:

#### Entities! Blog! Guide!
 - All Client login methods return Entity credentials if request.LoginTitlePlayerAccountEntity is set to true
 - Guilds! Blog! Guide!
 - Error Codes for many API methods updated for accuracy (Dozens!)

### New API Methods:

 - admin.RevokeInventoryItems and server.RevokeInventoryItems
 - A whole new Entity API
 - Many new Entity PlayStream Events (search for "entity" on linked page)
 
### Most SDKs Updated to support Entity APIs:

 - Full Support: UnitySdk, JavaScriptSdk, ActionScriptSdk, CSharpSdk, NodeSdk, PostmanCollection, WindowsSdk, Cocos2d-xSdk, JavaSdk, LuaSdk (Including Corona and Defold), PhpSdk, Cloud Script
 - Will Support Soon: Unreal Bb and Cpp (Sorry, delayed due to technical difficulties!)

## 180213

Date: 2018-02-13

### API Changes:

 - SendAccountRecoveryEmail now supports custom account recovery email templates when a custom account recovery email template ID is passed in with the request parameters.
 - All Client Login Mechanisms can now optionally return Entity API credentials
 - (This is part of a coming-soon feature)

### UnitySdk Specific Changes:

 - We are dropping support for older Unity versions, see our blog post
 - Build files are now published using Unity version 2017.3.0f3
 
## 180131

Date: 2018-01-31

### JavaSDK Changes:

 - Java is now published to Maven
 
## 180129

Date: 2018-01-29

### UnitySDK Specific Changes:

 - Fixing issues with compression
 - It should be safe to re-enable compression for all versions and all platforms

## 180123

Date: 2018-01-23

### UnitySDK Hotfix:

 - PlayFab UnitySDK had an issue with Unity version 2017.1
 - See the forum post for details
 - This has been resolved, PlayFab UnitySDK should work for all versions again

## 180122

Date: 2018-01-22

### API Documentation Update:

 - Error codes updated on many API methods

### CSharpSDK and UnitySDK Specific Changes:

 - Adding a PlayFabException class, so that it's easier to catch PlayFab specific exceptions.

### NodeSDK Specific Changes:

 - SDK Breaking Change: Require syntax for NodeSDK NPM package changed
 - Major upgrade focused on NPM package
 - Formerly require statements did not follow the NPM convention, requiring multiple nonstandard require statements
 - Now it requires a single require statement, and follows NPM conventions
 - Major version number changed, this release is now 2.0
 - 1.x to 2.x Upgrade Guide

### Cloud Script Example:

 - Added TypeScript definitions for the API Error exceptions

## 180103

Date: 2018-01-03

### LuaSdk/Defold/Corona Specific Updates:

 - Bugfix update
 - Some platforms were producing a malformed URL which could not be resolved
 
## 180102

Date: 2018-01-02

### UnitySDK Specific Updates:

 - Bugfix update
 - In order to avoid an issue with response headers, compression should be disabled for all device builds. This update makes that possible
 - Alternately, switching to Web Request will also avoid the issue
 - A new HTTP option has been added for Unity versions > 2017
